src/pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Examples.md, before:

>/ [VST Home](/Index.md) / [What is the VST 3 SDK?](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md)
>
># VST 3 Plug-in Examples

**On this page:**

[[_TOC_]]

**Related pages:**

- [VST 3 Plug-in Test Host](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Test+Host.md)
- [AAX, AUv3, AU and VST 2 Wrappers](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/Index.md)

---

## Introduction

The SDK includes some Plug-ins implementation examples. The Legendary **AGain** and **ADelay**, thanks Paul Kellet the Open-source **mda** Plug-ins, a basic "Note Expression Synth" supporting "**Note Expression Event**", an example of **pitchnames** support Plug-in, a **VST3 Host Checker** which checks if a host is VST3 compliant and more...

>![what_if_2](/resources/what_is_2.jpg)
>
>![what_if_3](/resources/what_is_3.jpg)
>
>![what_if_4](/resources/what_is_4.jpg)
>
>![what_if_5](/resources/what_is_5.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst"* of the SDK!

```admonish info
Note: They use cmake as project generator: [How to use cmake for Building VST 3 Plug-ins](https://developer.steinberg.help/vstinterfaces/cmakeUse.html) **<- Link broken**<br>
In order to add your own Plug-ins check: [How to add/create your own VST 3 Plug-ins](https://developer.steinberg.help/vstinterfaces/addownplugs.html) **<- Link broken**
```

## ADelay

Very simple delay Plug-in:
- only one parameter (a delay)

Check the folder [public.sdk/samples/vst/adelay](https://developer.steinberg.help/public.sdk/samples/vst/adelay) **<- Link broken** of the SDK!

Classes:
- [ADelayProcessor](https://developer.steinberg.help/classSteinberg_1_1Vst_1_1ADelayProcessor.html) **<- Link broken**
- [ADelayController](https://developer.steinberg.help/classSteinberg_1_1Vst_1_1ADelayController.html) **<- Link broken**

## AGain

The SDK includes an AGain Plug-in which is a very simple **VST 3 Plug-in**. This Plug-in:
- is multichannel compatible
- supports bypass processing
- has an automated gain parameter
- has an Event input bus (allowing to use noteOn velocity to control the gain factor)
- has a VU peak meter
- uses the [**VSTGUI4**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md) library
- a version of this Plug-in with side-chaining is available (showing a Plug-in using the same controller and different - components)
- a **AAX** version is available
- a **AUv3** version is available

![what_if_2](/resources/what_is_2.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/again"* of the SDK!

Classes:

- AGain
- AGainWithSideChain (used for side-chain version)
- AGainController
AGain Sample Accurate

Simple Plug-in showing how to achieve sample accurate processing.

Based Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/again_sampleaccurate"* of the SDK!

## TestChannelContext

Very simple Plug-in:

- showing how to use the [Steinberg::Vst::ChannelContext::IInfoListener](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IInfoListener.md) interface
- using a generic UI

![what_if_10](/resources/what_is_10.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/channelcontext"* of the SDK!

## HostChecker

- Instrument, Panner and Fx Plug-in checking the **VST 3** support of a host.
- It uses [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)
- a **AAX** version is available

![what_if_5](/resources/what_is_5.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/hostchecker"* of the SDK!

## TestLegacyMIDICCOut

Very simple Plug-in:
- showing how to use [LegacyMIDICCOutEvent](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/LegacyMIDICCOutEvent.md) which allow to generate MIDI CC as output event
- VST parameters change which creates [LegacyMIDICCOutEvent](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/LegacyMIDICCOutEvent.md) Event

![what_if_11](/resources/what_is_11.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/legacymidiccout"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- LegacyMIDICCOut::Plug

## mda Plug-ins

- Effects (stereo to stereo Plug-ins):
    - Ambience : Reverb
    - Bandisto : Multi-band Distortion
    - BeatBox : Drum Replacer
    - Combo : Amp and Speaker Simulator
    - DeEsser : High frequency Dynamics Processor
    - Degrade : Sample quality reduction
    - Delay : Simple stereo delay with feedback tone control
    - Detune : Simple up/down pitch shifting thickener
    - Dither : Range of dither types including noise shaping
    - DubDelay : Delay with feedback saturation and time/pitch modulation
    - Dynamics : Compressor / Limiter / Gate
    - Image : Stereo image adjustment and M-S matrix
    - Leslie : Rotary speaker simulator
    - Limiter : Opto-electronic style limiter
    - Loudness : Equal loudness contours for bass EQ and mix correction
    - MultiBand : Multi-band compressor with M-S processing modes
    - Overdrive : Soft distortion
    - RePsycho! : Drum loop pitch changer
    - RezFilter : Resonant filter with LFO and envelope follower
    - RingMod : Simple Ring Modulator
    - Round Panner: 3D panner
    - Shepard : Continuously rising/falling tone generator
    - SpecMeter : Stereo 13 Bands spectral Meter
    - Splitter : Frequency / level crossover for setting up dynamic processing
    - Stereo Simulator: Haas delay and comb filtering
    - Sub-Bass Synthesizer: Several low frequency enhancement methods
    - TalkBox : High resolution vocoder
    - TestTone : Signal generator with pink and white noise, impulses and sweeps
    - Thru-Zero Flanger : Classic tape-flanging simulation
    - Tracker : Pitch tracking oscillator, or pitch tracking EQ
- Instruments (1 Event input, 1 stereo Audio output):
    - DX10 : Sounds similar to the later Yamaha DX synths including the heavy bass but with a warmer, cleaner tone.
    - EPiano : Simple EPiano
    - JX10 : The Plug-in is designed for high quality (lower aliasing than most soft synths) and low processor usage
    - Piano : Not designed to be the best sounding piano in the world, but boasts extremely low CPU and memory usage.

Based on the OpenSource mda Plug-ins (<http://mda.smartelectronix.com/>), this set of Plug-ins demonstrates how wrap DS- code in a **VST 3** Plug-in.

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/mda-vst3"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- BaseProcessor
- BaseController
- BaseParameter

## Note Expression Synth

- Instrument Plug-in supporting [note expression](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/INoteExpressionController.md) events
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)
- a **AUv3** version is available

![what_if_4](/resources/what_is_4.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/note_expression_synth"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- NoteExpressionSynth::Processor
- NoteExpressionSynth::Controller
- NoteExpressionSynth::Voice


## Note Expression Text

- Plug-in visualizing the NoteExpression as Text
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI4**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/note_expression_text"* of the SDK!

## Panner

- Simple Panner Plug-in showing how to support Panner category (mono to Stereo)
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

![what_if_3](/resources/what_is_3.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/panner"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- PlugController
- PlugProcessor

## PitchNames

- Instrument Plug-in showing PitchNames support
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

![what_if_12](/resources/what_is_12.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/pitchnames"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- PitchNamesController
- PitchNamesProcessor
- PitchNamesDataBrowserSource

## TestPrefetchableSupport

Very simple Plug-in:
- showing how to use the [Steinberg::Vst::IPrefetchableSupport](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IPrefetchableSupport.md) interface
- using a generic UI

![what_if_13](/resources/what_is_13.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/prefetchablesupport"* of the SDK!

## TestProgramChange

Very simple Plug-in:
- showing how to support Program List
- using a generic UI

![what_if_14](/resources/what_is_14.jpg)

## Sync Delay

Very simple delay Plug-in:
- showing how to support [IProcessContextRequirements](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IProgress.md)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/syncdelay"* of the SDK!

Commit message:

Link Fixes
Fixed/removed various broken links

src/pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Examples.md, after:

>/ [VST Home](/Index.md) / [What is the VST 3 SDK?](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md)
>
># VST 3 Plug-in Examples

**On this page:**

[[_TOC_]]

**Related pages:**

- [VST 3 Plug-in Test Host](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Test+Host.md)
- [AAX, AUv3, AU and VST 2 Wrappers](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/Index.md)

---

## Introduction

The SDK includes some Plug-ins implementation examples. The Legendary **AGain** and **ADelay**, thanks Paul Kellet the Open-source **mda** Plug-ins, a basic "Note Expression Synth" supporting "**Note Expression Event**", an example of **pitchnames** support Plug-in, a **VST3 Host Checker** which checks if a host is VST3 compliant and more...

>![what_if_2](/resources/what_is_2.jpg)
>
>![what_if_3](/resources/what_is_3.jpg)
>
>![what_if_4](/resources/what_is_4.jpg)
>
>![what_if_5](/resources/what_is_5.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst"* of the SDK!

>- They use cmake as project generator: [Using cmake for building VST 3 plug-ins](../Tutorials/Using+cmake+for+building+plug-ins.md)<br>
>- In order to add your own Plug-ins check: [Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App](../Tutorials/Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md)

## ADelay

Very simple delay Plug-in:
- only one parameter (a delay)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/adelay"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- ADelayProcessor
- ADelayController

## AGain

The SDK includes an AGain Plug-in which is a very simple **VST 3 Plug-in**. This Plug-in:
- is multichannel compatible
- supports bypass processing
- has an automated gain parameter
- has an Event input bus (allowing to use noteOn velocity to control the gain factor)
- has a VU peak meter
- uses the [**VSTGUI4**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md) library
- a version of this Plug-in with side-chaining is available (showing a Plug-in using the same controller and different - components)
- a **AAX** version is available
- a **AUv3** version is available

![what_if_2](/resources/what_is_2.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/again"* of the SDK!

Classes:

- AGain
- AGainWithSideChain (used for side-chain version)
- AGainController
AGain Sample Accurate

Simple Plug-in showing how to achieve sample accurate processing.

Based Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/again_sampleaccurate"* of the SDK!

## TestChannelContext

Very simple Plug-in:

- showing how to use the [Steinberg::Vst::ChannelContext::IInfoListener](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IInfoListener.md) interface
- using a generic UI

![what_if_10](/resources/what_is_10.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/channelcontext"* of the SDK!

## HostChecker

- Instrument, Panner and Fx Plug-in checking the **VST 3** support of a host.
- It uses [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)
- a **AAX** version is available

![what_if_5](/resources/what_is_5.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/hostchecker"* of the SDK!

## TestLegacyMIDICCOut

Very simple Plug-in:
- showing how to use [LegacyMIDICCOutEvent](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/LegacyMIDICCOutEvent.md) which allow to generate MIDI CC as output event
- VST parameters change which creates [LegacyMIDICCOutEvent](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/LegacyMIDICCOutEvent.md) Event

![what_if_11](/resources/what_is_11.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/legacymidiccout"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- LegacyMIDICCOut::Plug

## mda Plug-ins

- Effects (stereo to stereo Plug-ins):
    - Ambience : Reverb
    - Bandisto : Multi-band Distortion
    - BeatBox : Drum Replacer
    - Combo : Amp and Speaker Simulator
    - DeEsser : High frequency Dynamics Processor
    - Degrade : Sample quality reduction
    - Delay : Simple stereo delay with feedback tone control
    - Detune : Simple up/down pitch shifting thickener
    - Dither : Range of dither types including noise shaping
    - DubDelay : Delay with feedback saturation and time/pitch modulation
    - Dynamics : Compressor / Limiter / Gate
    - Image : Stereo image adjustment and M-S matrix
    - Leslie : Rotary speaker simulator
    - Limiter : Opto-electronic style limiter
    - Loudness : Equal loudness contours for bass EQ and mix correction
    - MultiBand : Multi-band compressor with M-S processing modes
    - Overdrive : Soft distortion
    - RePsycho! : Drum loop pitch changer
    - RezFilter : Resonant filter with LFO and envelope follower
    - RingMod : Simple Ring Modulator
    - Round Panner: 3D panner
    - Shepard : Continuously rising/falling tone generator
    - SpecMeter : Stereo 13 Bands spectral Meter
    - Splitter : Frequency / level crossover for setting up dynamic processing
    - Stereo Simulator: Haas delay and comb filtering
    - Sub-Bass Synthesizer: Several low frequency enhancement methods
    - TalkBox : High resolution vocoder
    - TestTone : Signal generator with pink and white noise, impulses and sweeps
    - Thru-Zero Flanger : Classic tape-flanging simulation
    - Tracker : Pitch tracking oscillator, or pitch tracking EQ
- Instruments (1 Event input, 1 stereo Audio output):
    - DX10 : Sounds similar to the later Yamaha DX synths including the heavy bass but with a warmer, cleaner tone.
    - EPiano : Simple EPiano
    - JX10 : The Plug-in is designed for high quality (lower aliasing than most soft synths) and low processor usage
    - Piano : Not designed to be the best sounding piano in the world, but boasts extremely low CPU and memory usage.

Based on the OpenSource mda Plug-ins (<http://mda.smartelectronix.com/>), this set of Plug-ins demonstrates how wrap DS- code in a **VST 3** Plug-in.

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/mda-vst3"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- BaseProcessor
- BaseController
- BaseParameter

## Note Expression Synth

- Instrument Plug-in supporting [note expression](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/INoteExpressionController.md) events
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)
- a **AUv3** version is available

![what_if_4](/resources/what_is_4.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/note_expression_synth"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- NoteExpressionSynth::Processor
- NoteExpressionSynth::Controller
- NoteExpressionSynth::Voice


## Note Expression Text

- Plug-in visualizing the NoteExpression as Text
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI4**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/note_expression_text"* of the SDK!

## Panner

- Simple Panner Plug-in showing how to support Panner category (mono to Stereo)
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

![what_if_3](/resources/what_is_3.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/panner"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- PlugController
- PlugProcessor

## PitchNames

- Instrument Plug-in showing PitchNames support
- It shows how easy it is to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

![what_if_12](/resources/what_is_12.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/pitchnames"* of the SDK!

Classes:
- PitchNamesController
- PitchNamesProcessor
- PitchNamesDataBrowserSource

## TestPrefetchableSupport

Very simple Plug-in:
- showing how to use the [Steinberg::Vst::IPrefetchableSupport](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IPrefetchableSupport.md) interface
- using a generic UI

![what_if_13](/resources/what_is_13.jpg)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/prefetchablesupport"* of the SDK!

## TestProgramChange

Very simple Plug-in:
- showing how to support Program List
- using a generic UI

![what_if_14](/resources/what_is_14.jpg)

## Sync Delay

Very simple delay Plug-in:
- showing how to support [IProcessContextRequirements](../Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IProgress.md)

Check the folder *"public.sdk/samples/vst/syncdelay"* of the SDK!
