src/pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Plugin+Format.md, before:

>/ ... / [VST 3 Locations / Format](Index.md)
>
># Plug-in Format Structure

**On this page:**

[[_TOC_]]

**Related pages:**

- [VST 3 Locations / Format](Index.md)
- [Snapshots](Snapshots.md)

---

## For the macOS platform

On the macOS platform, **VST 3 Plug-in** is a standard macOS bundle, its file extension is "**.vst3**" and has the following folder structure:

| Folder                            | Description                                                   |
| :-                                | :-                                                            |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Resources/ | folder contains all additional resource files useful for the plug-in |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/MacOS/     | folder contains the plug-in’s macOS universal binary (Mach-O) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Info.plist | the plug-in’s property list                                   |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/PkgInfo    | specifies the type and creator codes of the bundle (optional) |

## For the Windows platform

On the Windows platform, a **VST 3 Plug-in** is organized as a bundle like package format (simple folder), its file extension is "**.vst3**" and has the following folder structure:

| Folder                                          | Description                  |
| :-                                              | :-                           |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Resources/               | folder contains all additional resource files useful for the plug-in |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/x86-win/MyPlugin.vst3    | folder contains the plug-in binary (32 bit dll for the i386 architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/x86_64-win/MyPlugin.vst3 | folder contains the plug-in binary (64 bit dll for the x86_64 architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/arm-win/MyPlugin.vst3    | Proposal: folder contains the plug-in binary (32 bit dll for the arm architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/arm_64-win/MyPlugin.vst3 | Proposal: folder contains the plug-in binary (64 bit dll for the arm64 architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/desktop.ini                       | used to set custom icon in Windows Explorer |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Plugin.ico                        | customized plug-in icon |

>ⓘ **Note**\
>In previous SDKs, the **VST 3 Plug-in** was defined as a single dll file with the **.vst3** extension. This is deprecated since VST 3.6.10.

The file **desktop.ini** should contain:

**desktop.ini**

``` text
[.ShellClassInfo]
IconResource=Plugin.ico,0
```

and you should then change their attributes with this command line (s for system to make sure that Windows will use it for the folder/bundle, **r** for read-only and **h** for hidden (optional)):

``` msdos
attrib +s +r +h desktop.ini
attrib +r +h Plugin.ico
```

## For the Linux platform

On Linux, a **VST 3 Plug-in** is organized as a bundle like package format, its file extension is "**.vst3**", it follows this folder structure:
 
| Folder                              | Description                        |
| :-                                  | :-                                 |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Resources/   | folder contains all additional resource files useful for the plug-in |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/i386-linux   | folder contains the plug-in binary (32 bit shared library .so for Kernel Architecture i386) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/x86_64-linux | folder contains the plug-in binary (64 bit shared library .so for Kernel Architecture x86_64) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/XXX-linux    | with XXX the architecture name based on the output of command-line "uname -m" (machine hardware) + "-linux" for example: • armv3l-linux<br> • armv4b-linux<br> • armv4l-linux<br> • armv5tel-linux<br> • armv5tejl-linux<br> • armv6l-linux<br> • armv7l-linux<br> • armv8l-linux |

## Merged Bundle

Note that all the bundles can be merged to one, which allows to have a cross-platform bundle/folder.

**For example:**

``` text
MyPlugin.vst3/
    |_ Contents/
    |   |__ Resources/
    |   |   |__ Documentation/
    |   |   |   |__ Manual.pdf
    |   |   |   |__ WhatsNew.pdf
    |   |   |__ Help/
    |   |   |   |__ helpdoc.xml
    |   |   |__ Snapshots/
    |   |   |   |__ 84E8DE5F92554F5396FAE4133C935A18_snapshot.png
    |   |   |   |__ 84E8DE5F92554F5396FAE4133C935A18_snapshot_2.0x.png
    |   |   |__ VST XMLs
    |   |   |   |__ AGain/
    |   |   |       |__84E8DE5F92554F5396FAE4133C935A18/
    |   |   |           |__Generic 8 Cells.xml
    |   |   |           |__WK-Audio ID 8 Cells.xml
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.srf
    |   |
    |   |__ armv7l-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ i686-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ i386-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ x86_64-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ MacOS/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin
    |   |
    |   |__ x86-win/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.vst3
    |   |
    |   |__ x86_64-win/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.vst3
    |   |
    |   |__ Info.plist  (macOS Only)
    |   |__ PkgInfo     (macOS Only)
    |
    |____desktop.ini    (Windows only)
    |___ Plugin.ico     (Windows only)
```

Commit message:

[new] first stuff for moduleinfo.json

src/pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Plugin+Format.md, after:

>/ ... / [VST 3 Locations / Format](Index.md)
>
># Plug-in Format Structure

**On this page:**

[[_TOC_]]

**Related pages:**

- [VST 3 Locations / Format](Index.md)
- [Snapshots](Snapshots.md)

---

## For the macOS platform

On the macOS platform, **VST 3 Plug-in** is a standard macOS bundle, its file extension is "**.vst3**" and has the following folder structure:

| Folder                                 | Description                                                   |
| :-                                     | :-                                                            |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Resources/      | folder contains all additional resource files useful for the plug-in |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/MacOS/          | folder contains the plug-in’s macOS universal binary (Mach-O) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/moduleinfo.json | the plug-in’s moduleinfo                                   |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Info.plist      | the plug-in’s property list                                   |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/PkgInfo         | specifies the type and creator codes of the bundle (optional) |

## For the Windows platform

On the Windows platform, a **VST 3 Plug-in** is organized as a bundle like package format (simple folder), its file extension is "**.vst3**" and has the following folder structure:

| Folder                                          | Description                  |
| :-                                              | :-                           |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Resources/               | folder contains all additional resource files useful for the plug-in |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/x86-win/MyPlugin.vst3    | folder contains the plug-in binary (32 bit dll for the i386 architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/x86_64-win/MyPlugin.vst3 | folder contains the plug-in binary (64 bit dll for the x86_64 architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/arm-win/MyPlugin.vst3    | Proposal: folder contains the plug-in binary (32 bit dll for the arm architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/arm_64-win/MyPlugin.vst3 | Proposal: folder contains the plug-in binary (64 bit dll for the arm64 architecture) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/moduleinfo.json          | the plug-in’s moduleinfo |
| MyPlugin.vst3/desktop.ini                       | used to set custom icon in Windows Explorer |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Plugin.ico                        | customized plug-in icon |

>ⓘ **Note**\
>In previous SDKs, the **VST 3 Plug-in** was defined as a single dll file with the **.vst3** extension. This is deprecated since VST 3.6.10.

The file **desktop.ini** should contain:

**desktop.ini**

``` text
[.ShellClassInfo]
IconResource=Plugin.ico,0
```

and you should then change their attributes with this command line (s for system to make sure that Windows will use it for the folder/bundle, **r** for read-only and **h** for hidden (optional)):

``` msdos
attrib +s +r +h desktop.ini
attrib +r +h Plugin.ico
```

## For the Linux platform

On Linux, a **VST 3 Plug-in** is organized as a bundle like package format, its file extension is "**.vst3**", it follows this folder structure:
 
| Folder                                 | Description                        |
| :-                                     | :-                                 |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/Resources/      | folder contains all additional resource files useful for the plug-in |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/i386-linux      | folder contains the plug-in binary (32 bit shared library .so for Kernel Architecture i386) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/x86_64-linux    | folder contains the plug-in binary (64 bit shared library .so for Kernel Architecture x86_64) |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/XXX-linux       | with XXX the architecture name based on the output of command-line "uname -m" (machine hardware) + "-linux" for example: • armv3l-linux<br> • armv4b-linux<br> • armv4l-linux<br> • armv5tel-linux<br> • armv5tejl-linux<br> • armv6l-linux<br> • armv7l-linux<br> • armv8l-linux |
| MyPlugin.vst3/Contents/moduleinfo.json | the plug-in’s moduleinfo |

## Merged Bundle

Note that all the bundles can be merged to one, which allows to have a cross-platform bundle/folder.

**For example:**

``` text
MyPlugin.vst3/
    |_ Contents/
    |   |__ Resources/
    |   |   |__ Documentation/
    |   |   |   |__ Manual.pdf
    |   |   |   |__ WhatsNew.pdf
    |   |   |__ Help/
    |   |   |   |__ helpdoc.xml
    |   |   |__ Snapshots/
    |   |   |   |__ 84E8DE5F92554F5396FAE4133C935A18_snapshot.png
    |   |   |   |__ 84E8DE5F92554F5396FAE4133C935A18_snapshot_2.0x.png
    |   |   |__ VST XMLs
    |   |   |   |__ AGain/
    |   |   |       |__84E8DE5F92554F5396FAE4133C935A18/
    |   |   |           |__Generic 8 Cells.xml
    |   |   |           |__WK-Audio ID 8 Cells.xml
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.srf
    |   |
    |   |__ armv7l-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ i686-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ i386-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ x86_64-linux/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.so
    |   |
    |   |__ MacOS/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin
    |   |
    |   |__ x86-win/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.vst3
    |   |
    |   |__ x86_64-win/
    |   |   |__ MyPlugin.vst3
    |   |
    |   |__ moduleinfo.json
    |   |__ Info.plist  (macOS Only)
    |   |__ PkgInfo     (macOS Only)
    |
    |____desktop.ini    (Windows only)
    |___ Plugin.ico     (Windows only)
```
