src/pages/Versions/Version+3.7.7.md, before:

>/ [VST Home](../) / [Change History](./Index.md)
>
># Version 3.7.7 (2022/12/??)

## Version 3.7.7 (2022/12/??)

- Interface changes:
  - Refactor SDK version macros in *vsttypes.h* so that the C API generator can use it.

- [VSTGUI](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

- New Flags/Enums:
  
- Documentation
  - New tutorial: [Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch](../Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)

- cmake
  - Adapting cmake for making possible to extract an example from the SDK.
  - Fix folder name for Windows *Arm64EC*.
  - Remove **${SDK_ROOT}** from *smtg_target_configure_version_file*.
  - Replace **SDK_ROOT** with **vst3sdk_SOURCE_DIR**.

- [Plug-in Wrappers](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/Index.md):

- [Samples](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Examples.md):

- [Validator](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md#validator-command-line):

- Helpers classes:

- [VST3PluginTestHost](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Test+Host.md) v3.4:
  - **MIDI 2** support on macOS with higher resolution for Velocity On/Off, Aftertouch, Poypressure, ControlChange and PitchBend.

- [VST3 Project Generator](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Project+Generator.md) v2022.10:
  - Support of multiple namespaces for generated plug-in source code (XX::YY::ZZ), request C++17 minimum.

Commit message:

[update] integrate new tutorial + reorganized the previous one

src/pages/Versions/Version+3.7.7.md, after:

>/ [VST Home](../) / [Change History](./Index.md)
>
># Version 3.7.7 (2022/12/??)

## Version 3.7.7 (2022/12/??)

- Interface changes:
  - Refactor SDK version macros in *vsttypes.h* so that the C API generator can use it.

- [VSTGUI](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)

- New Flags/Enums:
  
- Documentation
  - New tutorial: [Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch](../Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)
  - New tutorial: [Switching to another VSTGUI submodule or branch](../Tutorials/Switching+to+another-VSTGUI+submodule+or+branch.md)

- cmake
  - Adapting cmake for making possible to extract an example from the SDK.
  - Fix folder name for Windows *Arm64EC*.
  - Remove **${SDK_ROOT}** from *smtg_target_configure_version_file*.
  - Replace **SDK_ROOT** with **vst3sdk_SOURCE_DIR**.

- [Plug-in Wrappers](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/Index.md):

- [Samples](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Examples.md):

- [Validator](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md#validator-command-line):

- Helpers classes:

- [VST3PluginTestHost](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Test+Host.md) v3.4:
  - **MIDI 2** support on macOS with higher resolution for Velocity On/Off, Aftertouch, Poypressure, ControlChange and PitchBend.

- [VST3 Project Generator](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Project+Generator.md) v2022.10:
  - Support of multiple namespaces for generated plug-in source code (XX::YY::ZZ), request C++17 minimum.
