src/pages/README.md, before:

># VST Home

## Welcome to the world of VST 3

![VST Logo](../resources/VST_logo_white.png)

This part of the [Steinberg Developer Resource](https://developer.steinberg.help/display/SDH/Steinberg+Developer+Resource) is a portal dedicated to developers of **VST 3** plug-ins and **VST 3** hosts. Almost everything you need for developing **VST 3** plug-ins is explained in the sections below.

## [What is VST?](What+is+VST/Index.md)

Virtual Studio Technology (**VST**) is an audio plug-in software interface that facilitates the integration of software synthesizers and effects in digital audio workstations (DAW).

- [Use cases](What+is+VST/Use+cases.md)

## [Main benefits of VST 3](Main+benefits+of+VST+3/Index.md)

Here, you can find a non-exhaustive list of **VST 3** benefits.

## [What is the VST 3 SDK?](What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md)

The **VST 3 SDK** (Virtual Studio Technology Software Development Kit) is a collection of software development tools included in one package. This allows plug-in developers to create plug-ins in **VST 3** format and host developers to load **VST 3** plug-ins into a DAW or audio editor.

## [VST 3 licensing](VST+3+Licensing/Index.md)

- [Steinberg VST usage guidelines](VST+3+Licensing/Usage+guidelines.md)
- [What are the licensing options](VST+3+Licensing/What+are+the+licensing+options.md)
- [Which files fall under which license?](VST+3+Licensing/Which+files+fall+under+which+license.md)
- [Developer use cases (FAQs)](VST+3+Licensing/Developer+use+cases.md)

## [Getting Started](Getting+Started/Index.md)

- [VST 3 Links](Getting+Started/Links.md) — Important links you will need for working with **VST 3**
- [How to setup up my system for VST 3](Getting+Started/How+to+setup+my+system.md) — In order to build **VST 3** plug-ins, you need the source code of the **VST 3** (API: interface definition), an IDE/compiler, cmake and a **VST 3** host application.
- [Preparation on Windows](Getting+Started/Preparation+on+Windows.md) — Generated **VST 3** Microsoft Visual Studio Projects using the [cmake](<https://cmake.org/>) files included in the SDK will create by default symbolic links for each built plug-in in the official **VST 3** folder, in order to allow this on Windows you have to adapt the Group Policy of Windows. [See Here!](Getting+Started/Preparation+on+Windows.md)

## [Tutorials](Tutorials/Index.md)

- [Building the examples included in the SDK](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Index.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Windows](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Windows.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK on macOS](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+macOS.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Linux](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Linux.md)
- [Using cmake for building VST 3 plug-ins](Tutorials/Using+cmake+for+building+plug-ins.md)
- [Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App](Tutorials/Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md)
- [Code your first plug-in](Tutorials/Code+your+first+plug-in.md)
- [Use VSTGUI to design a User Interface](Tutorials/Use+VSTGUI+to+design+a+UI.md)
- [Advanced VST 3 techniques](Tutorials/Advanced+VST+3+techniques.md)
- [How to use the silence flags](Tutorials/How+to+use+the+silence+flags.md)
- [Guideline for replacing a VST 2 plug-in by a VST 3 plug-in](Tutorials/Guideline+for+VST3+replacing+VST2.md)
- [Strings Conversion Helper](Tutorials/Strings+Conversion+Helper.md)
- [Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch](Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)
- [Creating a plug-in from the Helloworld template](Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+the+Helloworld+template.md)
- [Switching to another VSTGUI submodule or branch](Tutorials/Switching+to+another-VSTGUI+submodule+or+branch.md)

## [VST 3 Forum](Forum/Index.md)

Visit Steinberg's **VST Developer Forum** in order to get help with development, to submit bug reports, to request new features and to connect to other **VST 3** developers:

## [Technical Documentation](Technical+Documentation/Index.md)

Browse the **VST 3 SDK**'s technical documentation. The full **VST 3 API** reference is only available in the [VST 3 Package](Getting+Started/Links.md) that you can download or find online here.

## [Miscellaneous](Miscellaneous/Index.md)

Copyrights and Glossary

Commit message:

[update] adapt doc to external hellowolrd example

src/pages/README.md, after:

># VST Home

## Welcome to the world of VST 3

![VST Logo](../resources/VST_logo_white.png)

This part of the [Steinberg Developer Resource](https://developer.steinberg.help/display/SDH/Steinberg+Developer+Resource) is a portal dedicated to developers of **VST 3** plug-ins and **VST 3** hosts. Almost everything you need for developing **VST 3** plug-ins is explained in the sections below.

## [What is VST?](What+is+VST/Index.md)

Virtual Studio Technology (**VST**) is an audio plug-in software interface that facilitates the integration of software synthesizers and effects in digital audio workstations (DAW).

- [Use cases](What+is+VST/Use+cases.md)

## [Main benefits of VST 3](Main+benefits+of+VST+3/Index.md)

Here, you can find a non-exhaustive list of **VST 3** benefits.

## [What is the VST 3 SDK?](What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md)

The **VST 3 SDK** (Virtual Studio Technology Software Development Kit) is a collection of software development tools included in one package. This allows plug-in developers to create plug-ins in **VST 3** format and host developers to load **VST 3** plug-ins into a DAW or audio editor.

## [VST 3 licensing](VST+3+Licensing/Index.md)

- [Steinberg VST usage guidelines](VST+3+Licensing/Usage+guidelines.md)
- [What are the licensing options](VST+3+Licensing/What+are+the+licensing+options.md)
- [Which files fall under which license?](VST+3+Licensing/Which+files+fall+under+which+license.md)
- [Developer use cases (FAQs)](VST+3+Licensing/Developer+use+cases.md)

## [Getting Started](Getting+Started/Index.md)

- [VST 3 Links](Getting+Started/Links.md) — Important links you will need for working with **VST 3**
- [How to setup up my system for VST 3](Getting+Started/How+to+setup+my+system.md) — In order to build **VST 3** plug-ins, you need the source code of the **VST 3** (API: interface definition), an IDE/compiler, cmake and a **VST 3** host application.
- [Preparation on Windows](Getting+Started/Preparation+on+Windows.md) — Generated **VST 3** Microsoft Visual Studio Projects using the [cmake](<https://cmake.org/>) files included in the SDK will create by default symbolic links for each built plug-in in the official **VST 3** folder, in order to allow this on Windows you have to adapt the Group Policy of Windows. [See Here!](Getting+Started/Preparation+on+Windows.md)

## [Tutorials](Tutorials/Index.md)

- [Building the examples included in the SDK](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Index.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Windows](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Windows.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK on macOS](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+macOS.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Linux](Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Linux.md)
- [Using cmake for building VST 3 plug-ins](Tutorials/Using+cmake+for+building+plug-ins.md)
- [Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App](Tutorials/Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md)
- [Code your first plug-in](Tutorials/Code+your+first+plug-in.md)
- [Use VSTGUI to design a User Interface](Tutorials/Use+VSTGUI+to+design+a+UI.md)
- [Advanced VST 3 techniques](Tutorials/Advanced+VST+3+techniques.md)
- [How to use the silence flags](Tutorials/How+to+use+the+silence+flags.md)
- [Guideline for replacing a VST 2 plug-in by a VST 3 plug-in](Tutorials/Guideline+for+VST3+replacing+VST2.md)
- [Strings Conversion Helper](Tutorials/Strings+Conversion+Helper.md)
- [Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch](Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)
- [Creating a plug-in with VST 3 SDK as an external project](Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+with+VST+3+SDK+as+an+external+project.md)
- [Switching to another VSTGUI submodule or branch](Tutorials/Switching+to+another-VSTGUI+submodule+or+branch.md)

## [VST 3 Forum](Forum/Index.md)

Visit Steinberg's **VST Developer Forum** in order to get help with development, to submit bug reports, to request new features and to connect to other **VST 3** developers:

## [Technical Documentation](Technical+Documentation/Index.md)

Browse the **VST 3 SDK**'s technical documentation. The full **VST 3 API** reference is only available in the [VST 3 Package](Getting+Started/Links.md) that you can download or find online here.

## [Miscellaneous](Miscellaneous/Index.md)

Copyrights and Glossary
