src/pages/Tutorials/Index.md, before:

>/ [VST Home](../)
>
># Tutorials

**On this page:**

[[_TOC_]]

---

The tutorials explain common techniques and best practices for building your plug-ins. By following the instruction step by step you will learn how to develop **VST 3** plug-ins.

>ⓘ **Note**\
>This section is under construction and will be extended inthe future with new tutorials.

## Building the examples included in the SDK

### Building the examples included in the SDK on Windows

[Link](Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Windows.md)

This tutorial explains how to set up your computer and create an environment for compiling the **VST 3** audio plug-in examples provided with the **VST 3 SDK**.

### Building the examples included in the SDK on macOS

[Link](Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+macOS.md)

This tutorial explains how to set up your computer and create an environment for compiling the **VST 3** audio plug-in examples provided with the **VST 3 SDK**.

### Building the examples included in the SDK on Linux

[Link](Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Linux.md)

This tutorial explains how to set up your computer and create an environment for compiling the **VST 3** audio plug-in examples provided with the **VST 3 SDK**.

## Using cmake for building VST 3 plug-ins

[Link](Using+cmake+for+building+plug-ins.md)

This tutorial explains how to use *cmake* with **VST 3 SDK**.

## Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App

[Link](Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md)

This tutorial explains how to create a new audio plug-in by using the [VST 3 Project Generator](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Project+Generator.md) included in the **VST 3 SDK**.

## Code your first plug-in

[Link](Code+your+first+plug-in.md)

Following the previous tutorial [Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App](Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md), this tutorial explains how to code an audio plug-in and how to add some basic features.

## Use VSTGUI to design a User Interface

[Link](Use+VSTGUI+to+design+a+UI.md)

This tutorial explains how to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md). [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md) comes with a *WYSIWYG* editor that allows you to create stunning user interfaces for your plug-in.

## Advanced VST 3 techniques

[Link](Advanced+VST+3+techniques.md)

In this tutorial you will learn:

- How to add nearly sample accurate parameter changes to an audio effect
- Using C++ templates to write one algorithm supporting 32 bit and 64 bit audio processing
- Setting the state of the audio effect in a thread safe manner

## How to use the silence flags

[Link](How+to+use+the+silence+flags.md)

This tutorial explains how to use silence flags.

## Guideline for replacing a VST 2 plug-in by a VST 3 plug-in

[Link](Guideline+for+VST3+replacing+VST2.md)

This guideline explains what could be done for creating a **VST 3** plug-in replacing an old **VST 2** plug-in.

## Strings Conversion Helper

[Link](Strings+Conversion+Helper.md)

The SDK provides some helpers functions to convert from UTF16 (use in **VST 3** interfaces) to UTF8 (used by std::string).

## Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch

[Link](Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)

This tutorial provides a step-by-step guide for building a **VST 3** plug-in's ```CMakeLists.txt``` from scratch.

## Creating a plug-in from the Helloworld template

[Link](Creating+a+plug-in+from+the+Helloworld+template.md)

This tutorial explains how to create a new audio plug-in from the Helloworld template included in the **VST 3 SDK**.

## Switching to another VSTGUI submodule or branch

[Link](Switching+to+another-VSTGUI+submodule+or+branch.md)

Sometimes it is necessary to switch to another **VSTGUI** submodule or branch for testing purpose. This tutorial explains how to do that.

## Tutorials on Youtube from 3rd Party developers

### How to setup the VST 3 SDK's Sample Plugin Projects

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=004zcWwgi1A](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=004zcWwgi1A)

### VST 3 SDK Tutorial: Create your own VST 3 Synth plug-in

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdgytoRLKj0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdgytoRLKj0)

### Building Your First Audio Plug-in (Windows 10)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MQZyZKOPPM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MQZyZKOPPM)

### Building Your First Audio Plug-in (macOS)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Twcx6Sd6HBw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Twcx6Sd6HBw)

### Building Your First Audio Plug-in (Linux Ubuntu)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jXryyxEsFag](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jXryyxEsFag)

Commit message:

[update] adapt doc to external hellowolrd example

src/pages/Tutorials/Index.md, after:

>/ [VST Home](../)
>
># Tutorials

**On this page:**

[[_TOC_]]

---

The tutorials explain common techniques and best practices for building your plug-ins. By following the instruction step by step you will learn how to develop **VST 3** plug-ins.

>ⓘ **Note**\
>This section is under construction and will be extended inthe future with new tutorials.

## Building the examples included in the SDK

### Building the examples included in the SDK on Windows

[Link](Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Windows.md)

This tutorial explains how to set up your computer and create an environment for compiling the **VST 3** audio plug-in examples provided with the **VST 3 SDK**.

### Building the examples included in the SDK on macOS

[Link](Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+macOS.md)

This tutorial explains how to set up your computer and create an environment for compiling the **VST 3** audio plug-in examples provided with the **VST 3 SDK**.

### Building the examples included in the SDK on Linux

[Link](Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Linux.md)

This tutorial explains how to set up your computer and create an environment for compiling the **VST 3** audio plug-in examples provided with the **VST 3 SDK**.

## Using cmake for building VST 3 plug-ins

[Link](Using+cmake+for+building+plug-ins.md)

This tutorial explains how to use *cmake* with **VST 3 SDK**.

## Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App

[Link](Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md)

This tutorial explains how to create a new audio plug-in by using the [VST 3 Project Generator](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Project+Generator.md) included in the **VST 3 SDK**.

## Code your first plug-in

[Link](Code+your+first+plug-in.md)

Following the previous tutorial [Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App](Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md), this tutorial explains how to code an audio plug-in and how to add some basic features.

## Use VSTGUI to design a User Interface

[Link](Use+VSTGUI+to+design+a+UI.md)

This tutorial explains how to use [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md). [**VSTGUI**](../What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md) comes with a *WYSIWYG* editor that allows you to create stunning user interfaces for your plug-in.

## Advanced VST 3 techniques

[Link](Advanced+VST+3+techniques.md)

In this tutorial you will learn:

- How to add nearly sample accurate parameter changes to an audio effect
- Using C++ templates to write one algorithm supporting 32 bit and 64 bit audio processing
- Setting the state of the audio effect in a thread safe manner

## How to use the silence flags

[Link](How+to+use+the+silence+flags.md)

This tutorial explains how to use silence flags.

## Guideline for replacing a VST 2 plug-in by a VST 3 plug-in

[Link](Guideline+for+VST3+replacing+VST2.md)

This guideline explains what could be done for creating a **VST 3** plug-in replacing an old **VST 2** plug-in.

## Strings Conversion Helper

[Link](Strings+Conversion+Helper.md)

The SDK provides some helpers functions to convert from UTF16 (use in **VST 3** interfaces) to UTF8 (used by std::string).

## Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch

[Link](Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)

This tutorial provides a step-by-step guide for building a **VST 3** plug-in's ```CMakeLists.txt``` from scratch.

## Creating a plug-in with VST 3 SDK as an external project

[Link](Creating+a+plug-in+with+VST+3+SDK+as+an+external+project.md)

This is a simple Hello World **VST 3 SDK** plug-in to demonstrate how to use the VST 3 SDK as an external project.

## Switching to another VSTGUI submodule or branch

[Link](Switching+to+another-VSTGUI+submodule+or+branch.md)

Sometimes it is necessary to switch to another **VSTGUI** submodule or branch for testing purpose. This tutorial explains how to do that.

## Tutorials on Youtube from 3rd Party developers

### How to setup the VST 3 SDK's Sample Plugin Projects

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=004zcWwgi1A](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=004zcWwgi1A)

### VST 3 SDK Tutorial: Create your own VST 3 Synth plug-in

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdgytoRLKj0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdgytoRLKj0)

### Building Your First Audio Plug-in (Windows 10)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MQZyZKOPPM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4MQZyZKOPPM)

### Building Your First Audio Plug-in (macOS)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Twcx6Sd6HBw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Twcx6Sd6HBw)

### Building Your First Audio Plug-in (Linux Ubuntu)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jXryyxEsFag](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jXryyxEsFag)
