src/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

[VST](pages/README.md)

- [What is VST?](pages/What+is+VST/Index.md)
  - [Use cases](pages/What+is+VST/Use+cases.md)
- [Main benefits of VST 3](pages/Main+benefits+of+VST+3/Index.md)
- [What is the VST 3 SDK?](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Plug-in Examples](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Examples.md)
  - [VST 3 Plug-in Test Host](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Test+Host.md)
  - [VST 3 Project Generator](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Project+Generator.md)
  - [Validator command line](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Validator.md)
  - [AudioHost Application](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/AudioHost.md)
  - [EditorHost Application](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/EditorHost.md)
  - [VST 3 Inspector Application](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VST3Inspector.md)
  - [AAX, AUv3, AU and VST 2 Wrappers](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/Index.md)
    - [VST 2.x Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/VST+2+Wrapper.md)
    - [AAX Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/AAX+Wrapper.md)
    - [AudioUnit v3 Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/AUv3+Wrapper.md)
    - [AudioUnit v2 Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/AUv2+Wrapper.md)
  - [iOS Inter-App Audio Support](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/iOS+Inter-App+Audio+support.md)
  - [VSTGUI](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)
- [VST 3 Licensing](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Index.md)
  - [Steinberg VST usage guidelines](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Usage+guidelines.md)
  - [What are the licensing options](pages/VST+3+Licensing/What+are+the+licensing+options.md)
  - [Which files fall under which license?](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Which+files+fall+under+which+license.md)
  - [Developer use cases (FAQs)](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Developer+use+cases.md)
- [Getting Started](pages/Getting+Started/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Links](pages/Getting+Started/Links.md)
  - [How to set up my system for VST 3](pages/Getting+Started/How+to+setup+my+system.md)
  - [Preparation on Windows](pages/Getting+Started/Preparation+on+Windows.md)
- [Tutorials](pages/Tutorials/Index.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Index.md)
    - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Windows](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Windows.md)
    - [Building the examples included in the SDK on macOS](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+macOS.md)
    - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Linux](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Linux.md)
  - [Using cmake for building VST 3 plug-ins](pages/Tutorials/Using+cmake+for+building+plug-ins.md)
  - [Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App](pages/Tutorials/Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md)
  - [Code your first plug-in](pages/Tutorials/Code+your+first+plug-in.md)
  - [Use VSTGUI to design a User Interface](pages/Tutorials/Use+VSTGUI+to+design+a+UI.md)
  - [Advanced VST 3 techniques](pages/Tutorials/Advanced+VST+3+techniques.md)
  - [How to use the silence flags](pages/Tutorials/How+to+use+the+silence+flags.md)
  - [Guideline for replacing a VST 2 plug-in by a VST 3 plug-in](pages/Tutorials/Guideline+for+VST3+replacing+VST2.md)
  - [Strings Conversion Helper](pages/Tutorials/Strings+Conversion+Helper.md)
  - [Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch](pages/Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)
  - [Creating a plug-in from the Helloworld template](pages/Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+the+Helloworld+template.md)
  - [Switching to another VSTGUI submodule or branch](pages/Tutorials/Switching+to+another-VSTGUI+submodule+or+branch.md)
- [Technical Documentation](pages/Technical+Documentation/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 API Documentation](pages/Technical+Documentation/API+Documentation/Index.md)
  - [VST Module Architecture](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Index.md)
    - [How the host will load a VST-MA based Plug-in](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Loading.md)
    - [How to derive a class from an interface](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Derive+From+Interface.md)
    - [Interface Versions and Inheritance](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Interface+Versions+and+Inheritance.md)
    - [Moduleinfo](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/ModuleInfo-JSON.md)
  - [Parameters and Automation](pages/Technical+Documentation/Parameters+Automation/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Units](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+3+Units/Index.md)
  - [Presets & Program Lists](pages/Technical+Documentation/Presets+Program+Lists/Index.md)
  - [Complex Plug-in Structures / Multi-timbral Instruments](pages/Technical+Documentation/Complex+Structures/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Workflow Diagrams](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Index.md)
    - [Audio Processor Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Audio+Processor+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Edit Controller Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Edit+Controller+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Get Latency Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Get+Latency+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Resize View Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Resize+View+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Bus Arrangement Setting Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Bus+Arrangement+Setting+Sequence.md)
  - [VST 3 Locations / Format](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Index.md)
    - [Plug-in Format Structure](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Plugin+Format.md)
    - [Plug-in Locations](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Plugin+Locations.md)
    - [Preset Format](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Preset+Format.md)
    - [Preset Locations](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Preset+Locations.md)
    - [Snapshots](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Snapshots.md)
  - [About MIDI in VST 3](pages/Technical+Documentation/About+MIDI/Index.md)
  - [Host Requirements for VST 3 Support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Host+Requirements/Index.md)
  - [Features History >>>>>>>>>>>>>>](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/Index.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Interfaces supported by the plug-in](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Plug+in+Interfaces.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Multiple Dynamic I/O Support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Multiple+Dynamic+IO.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Silence flags](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Silence+flags.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Interfaces supported by the host](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Host+Interfaces.md)
  - [\[3.0.1\] Parameter MIDI Mapping](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.1/IMidiMapping.md)
  - [\[3.0.2\] Parameter Finder](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.2/IParameterFinder.md)
  - [\[3.1.0\] Audio Presentation Latency](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.1.0/IAudioPresentationLatency.md)
  - [\[3.1.0\] Dirty State, Open Editor Request and UI Group Editing Support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.1.0/IComponentHandler2.md)
  - [\[3.1.0\] KnobMode, Open Help & Open Aboutbox](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.1.0/IEditController2.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Note Expression](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/INoteExpressionController.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Key Switch](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IKeyswitchController.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Remote Presentation of Parameters](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IXmlRepresentationController.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Context Menu](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IComponentHandler3.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Enhanced Linked Parameters](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IEditControllerHostEditing.md)
  - [\[3.6.0\] iOS Inter-App Audio](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.0/IAA.md)
  - [\[3.6.0\] Preset Meta-Information](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.0/IStreamAttributes.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Channel Context Info](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IInfoListener.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Unit-Bus Assignment Change](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IUnitHandler2.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Prefetchable](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IPrefetchableSupport.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Automation State](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IAutomationState.md)
  - [\[3.6.6\] PlugView Content Scaling](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.6/IPlugViewContentScaleSupport.md)
  - [\[3.6.8\] Request Bus Activation](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.8/IComponentHandlerBusActivation.md)
  - [\[3.6.10\] UI Snapshots](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.10/UI+Snapshots.md)
  - [\[3.6.11\] NoteExpression Physical UI Mapping](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.11/INoteExpressionPhysicalUIMapping.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] Legacy MIDI CC Out Event](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/LegacyMIDICCOutEvent.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] MIDI Learn](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/IMidiLearn.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] Host Query Interface support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/IPlugInterfaceSupport.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] MPE support for Wrappers](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/IVst3WrapperMPESupport.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Parameter Function Name](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IParameterFunctionName.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Progress display](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IProgress.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Process Context Requirements](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IProcessContextRequirements.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Control Voltage Bus Flag](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/Control+Voltage.md)
  - [\[3.7.5\] Module Info and Plug-in Compatibility](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.5/ModuleInfo.md)
- [Change History](pages/Versions/Index.md)
  - [Version 3.7.8 (2023/05/15)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.8.md)
  - [Version 3.7.7 (2022/12/12)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.7.md)
  - [Version 3.7.6 (2022/09/05)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.6.md)
  - [Version 3.7.5 (2022/05/16)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.5.md)
  - [Version 3.7.4 (2021/12/14)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.4.md)
  - [Version 3.7.3 (2021/08/10)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.3.md)
  - [Version 3.7.2 (2021/03/30)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.2.md)
  - [Version 3.7.1 (2020/11/17)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.1.md)
  - [Version 3.7.0 (2020/07/29)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.0.md)
  - [Version 3.6.14 (2019/11/29)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.14.md)
  - [Version 3.6.13 (2019/04/08)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.13.md)
  - [Version 3.6.12 (2018/12/03)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.12.md)
  - [Version 3.6.11 (2018/10/22)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.11.md)
  - [Version 3.6.10 (2018/06/11)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.10.md)
  - [Version 3.6.9 (2018/03/01)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.9.md)
  - [Version 3.6.8 (2017/11/08)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.8.md)
  - [Version 3.6.7 (2017/03/03)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.7.md)
  - [Version 3.6.6 (2016/06/17)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.6.md)
  - [Version 3.6.5 (2015/08/28)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.5.md)
  - [Version 3.6.0 (2013/11/22)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.0.md)
  - [Version 3.5.2 (2012/09/25)](pages/Versions/Version+3.5.2.md)
  - [Version 3.5.1 (2011/11/11)](pages/Versions/Version+3.5.1.md)
  - [Version 3.5.0 (2011/02/04)](pages/Versions/Version+3.5.0.md)
  - [Version 3.1.0 (2010/06/25)](pages/Versions/Version+3.1.0.md)
  - [Version 3.0.2 (2009/01/15)](pages/Versions/Version+3.0.2.md)
  - [Version 3.0.1 (2008/03/19)](pages/Versions/Version+3.0.1.md)
  - [Version 3.0.0 (2008/01/17)](pages/Versions/Version+3.0.0.md)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](pages/FAQ/Index.md)
  - [Communication](pages/FAQ/Communication.md)
  - [Processing](pages/FAQ/Processing.md)
  - [GUI-Editor](pages/FAQ/GUI+Editor.md)
  - [Compatibility with VST 2.x or VST 1](pages/FAQ/Compatibility+with+VST+2.x+or+VST+1.md)
  - [Persistence](pages/FAQ/Persistence.md)
  - [Miscellaneous](pages/FAQ/Miscellaneous.md)
  - [Licensing](pages/FAQ/Licensing.md)
  - [Hosting](pages/FAQ/Hosting.md)
- [VST 3 Forum](pages/Forum/Index.md)
- [Miscellaneous](pages/Miscellaneous/Index.md)

Commit message:

[update] adapt doc to external hellowolrd example

src/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

[VST](pages/README.md)

- [What is VST?](pages/What+is+VST/Index.md)
  - [Use cases](pages/What+is+VST/Use+cases.md)
- [Main benefits of VST 3](pages/Main+benefits+of+VST+3/Index.md)
- [What is the VST 3 SDK?](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Plug-in Examples](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Examples.md)
  - [VST 3 Plug-in Test Host](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Plug-in+Test+Host.md)
  - [VST 3 Project Generator](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Project+Generator.md)
  - [Validator command line](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Validator.md)
  - [AudioHost Application](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/AudioHost.md)
  - [EditorHost Application](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/EditorHost.md)
  - [VST 3 Inspector Application](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VST3Inspector.md)
  - [AAX, AUv3, AU and VST 2 Wrappers](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/Index.md)
    - [VST 2.x Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/VST+2+Wrapper.md)
    - [AAX Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/AAX+Wrapper.md)
    - [AudioUnit v3 Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/AUv3+Wrapper.md)
    - [AudioUnit v2 Wrapper](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/Wrappers/AUv2+Wrapper.md)
  - [iOS Inter-App Audio Support](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/iOS+Inter-App+Audio+support.md)
  - [VSTGUI](pages/What+is+the+VST+3+SDK/VSTGUI.md)
- [VST 3 Licensing](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Index.md)
  - [Steinberg VST usage guidelines](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Usage+guidelines.md)
  - [What are the licensing options](pages/VST+3+Licensing/What+are+the+licensing+options.md)
  - [Which files fall under which license?](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Which+files+fall+under+which+license.md)
  - [Developer use cases (FAQs)](pages/VST+3+Licensing/Developer+use+cases.md)
- [Getting Started](pages/Getting+Started/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Links](pages/Getting+Started/Links.md)
  - [How to set up my system for VST 3](pages/Getting+Started/How+to+setup+my+system.md)
  - [Preparation on Windows](pages/Getting+Started/Preparation+on+Windows.md)
- [Tutorials](pages/Tutorials/Index.md)
  - [Building the examples included in the SDK](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Index.md)
    - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Windows](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Windows.md)
    - [Building the examples included in the SDK on macOS](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+macOS.md)
    - [Building the examples included in the SDK on Linux](pages/Tutorials/Building+the+examples/Building+the+examples+included+in+the+SDK+Linux.md)
  - [Using cmake for building VST 3 plug-ins](pages/Tutorials/Using+cmake+for+building+plug-ins.md)
  - [Generate a new plug-in with the Project Generator App](pages/Tutorials/Generate+new+plug-in+with+Project+Generator.md)
  - [Code your first plug-in](pages/Tutorials/Code+your+first+plug-in.md)
  - [Use VSTGUI to design a User Interface](pages/Tutorials/Use+VSTGUI+to+design+a+UI.md)
  - [Advanced VST 3 techniques](pages/Tutorials/Advanced+VST+3+techniques.md)
  - [How to use the silence flags](pages/Tutorials/How+to+use+the+silence+flags.md)
  - [Guideline for replacing a VST 2 plug-in by a VST 3 plug-in](pages/Tutorials/Guideline+for+VST3+replacing+VST2.md)
  - [Strings Conversion Helper](pages/Tutorials/Strings+Conversion+Helper.md)
  - [Creating a cmake plug-in project from scratch](pages/Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+from+scratch.md)
  - [Creating a plug-in with VST 3 SDK as an external project](pages/Tutorials/Creating+a+plug-in+with+VST+3+SDK+as+an+external+project.md)
  - [Switching to another VSTGUI submodule or branch](pages/Tutorials/Switching+to+another-VSTGUI+submodule+or+branch.md)
- [Technical Documentation](pages/Technical+Documentation/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 API Documentation](pages/Technical+Documentation/API+Documentation/Index.md)
  - [VST Module Architecture](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Index.md)
    - [How the host will load a VST-MA based Plug-in](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Loading.md)
    - [How to derive a class from an interface](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Derive+From+Interface.md)
    - [Interface Versions and Inheritance](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/Interface+Versions+and+Inheritance.md)
    - [Moduleinfo](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+Module+Architecture/ModuleInfo-JSON.md)
  - [Parameters and Automation](pages/Technical+Documentation/Parameters+Automation/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Units](pages/Technical+Documentation/VST+3+Units/Index.md)
  - [Presets & Program Lists](pages/Technical+Documentation/Presets+Program+Lists/Index.md)
  - [Complex Plug-in Structures / Multi-timbral Instruments](pages/Technical+Documentation/Complex+Structures/Index.md)
  - [VST 3 Workflow Diagrams](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Index.md)
    - [Audio Processor Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Audio+Processor+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Edit Controller Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Edit+Controller+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Get Latency Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Get+Latency+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Resize View Call Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Resize+View+Call+Sequence.md)
    - [Bus Arrangement Setting Sequence](pages/Technical+Documentation/Workflow+Diagrams/Bus+Arrangement+Setting+Sequence.md)
  - [VST 3 Locations / Format](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Index.md)
    - [Plug-in Format Structure](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Plugin+Format.md)
    - [Plug-in Locations](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Plugin+Locations.md)
    - [Preset Format](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Preset+Format.md)
    - [Preset Locations](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Preset+Locations.md)
    - [Snapshots](pages/Technical+Documentation/Locations+Format/Snapshots.md)
  - [About MIDI in VST 3](pages/Technical+Documentation/About+MIDI/Index.md)
  - [Host Requirements for VST 3 Support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Host+Requirements/Index.md)
  - [Features History >>>>>>>>>>>>>>](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/Index.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Interfaces supported by the plug-in](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Plug+in+Interfaces.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Multiple Dynamic I/O Support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Multiple+Dynamic+IO.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Silence flags](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Silence+flags.md)
  - [\[3.0.0\] Interfaces supported by the host](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.0/Host+Interfaces.md)
  - [\[3.0.1\] Parameter MIDI Mapping](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.1/IMidiMapping.md)
  - [\[3.0.2\] Parameter Finder](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.0.2/IParameterFinder.md)
  - [\[3.1.0\] Audio Presentation Latency](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.1.0/IAudioPresentationLatency.md)
  - [\[3.1.0\] Dirty State, Open Editor Request and UI Group Editing Support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.1.0/IComponentHandler2.md)
  - [\[3.1.0\] KnobMode, Open Help & Open Aboutbox](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.1.0/IEditController2.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Note Expression](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/INoteExpressionController.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Key Switch](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IKeyswitchController.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Remote Presentation of Parameters](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IXmlRepresentationController.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Context Menu](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IComponentHandler3.md)
  - [\[3.5.0\] Enhanced Linked Parameters](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.5.0/IEditControllerHostEditing.md)
  - [\[3.6.0\] iOS Inter-App Audio](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.0/IAA.md)
  - [\[3.6.0\] Preset Meta-Information](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.0/IStreamAttributes.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Channel Context Info](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IInfoListener.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Unit-Bus Assignment Change](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IUnitHandler2.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Prefetchable](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IPrefetchableSupport.md)
  - [\[3.6.5\] Automation State](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.5/IAutomationState.md)
  - [\[3.6.6\] PlugView Content Scaling](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.6/IPlugViewContentScaleSupport.md)
  - [\[3.6.8\] Request Bus Activation](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.8/IComponentHandlerBusActivation.md)
  - [\[3.6.10\] UI Snapshots](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.10/UI+Snapshots.md)
  - [\[3.6.11\] NoteExpression Physical UI Mapping](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.11/INoteExpressionPhysicalUIMapping.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] Legacy MIDI CC Out Event](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/LegacyMIDICCOutEvent.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] MIDI Learn](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/IMidiLearn.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] Host Query Interface support](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/IPlugInterfaceSupport.md)
  - [\[3.6.12\] MPE support for Wrappers](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.6.12/IVst3WrapperMPESupport.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Parameter Function Name](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IParameterFunctionName.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Progress display](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IProgress.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Process Context Requirements](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/IProcessContextRequirements.md)
  - [\[3.7.0\] Control Voltage Bus Flag](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.0/Control+Voltage.md)
  - [\[3.7.5\] Module Info and Plug-in Compatibility](pages/Technical+Documentation/Change+History/3.7.5/ModuleInfo.md)
- [Change History](pages/Versions/Index.md)
  - [Version 3.7.8 (2023/05/15)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.8.md)
  - [Version 3.7.7 (2022/12/12)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.7.md)
  - [Version 3.7.6 (2022/09/05)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.6.md)
  - [Version 3.7.5 (2022/05/16)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.5.md)
  - [Version 3.7.4 (2021/12/14)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.4.md)
  - [Version 3.7.3 (2021/08/10)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.3.md)
  - [Version 3.7.2 (2021/03/30)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.2.md)
  - [Version 3.7.1 (2020/11/17)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.1.md)
  - [Version 3.7.0 (2020/07/29)](pages/Versions/Version+3.7.0.md)
  - [Version 3.6.14 (2019/11/29)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.14.md)
  - [Version 3.6.13 (2019/04/08)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.13.md)
  - [Version 3.6.12 (2018/12/03)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.12.md)
  - [Version 3.6.11 (2018/10/22)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.11.md)
  - [Version 3.6.10 (2018/06/11)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.10.md)
  - [Version 3.6.9 (2018/03/01)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.9.md)
  - [Version 3.6.8 (2017/11/08)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.8.md)
  - [Version 3.6.7 (2017/03/03)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.7.md)
  - [Version 3.6.6 (2016/06/17)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.6.md)
  - [Version 3.6.5 (2015/08/28)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.5.md)
  - [Version 3.6.0 (2013/11/22)](pages/Versions/Version+3.6.0.md)
  - [Version 3.5.2 (2012/09/25)](pages/Versions/Version+3.5.2.md)
  - [Version 3.5.1 (2011/11/11)](pages/Versions/Version+3.5.1.md)
  - [Version 3.5.0 (2011/02/04)](pages/Versions/Version+3.5.0.md)
  - [Version 3.1.0 (2010/06/25)](pages/Versions/Version+3.1.0.md)
  - [Version 3.0.2 (2009/01/15)](pages/Versions/Version+3.0.2.md)
  - [Version 3.0.1 (2008/03/19)](pages/Versions/Version+3.0.1.md)
  - [Version 3.0.0 (2008/01/17)](pages/Versions/Version+3.0.0.md)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](pages/FAQ/Index.md)
  - [Communication](pages/FAQ/Communication.md)
  - [Processing](pages/FAQ/Processing.md)
  - [GUI-Editor](pages/FAQ/GUI+Editor.md)
  - [Compatibility with VST 2.x or VST 1](pages/FAQ/Compatibility+with+VST+2.x+or+VST+1.md)
  - [Persistence](pages/FAQ/Persistence.md)
  - [Miscellaneous](pages/FAQ/Miscellaneous.md)
  - [Licensing](pages/FAQ/Licensing.md)
  - [Hosting](pages/FAQ/Hosting.md)
- [VST 3 Forum](pages/Forum/Index.md)
- [Miscellaneous](pages/Miscellaneous/Index.md)
